.Net Core 
Design Patterns(CQRS, Signgleton, Factory)
Microservise Architecture

LINQ(Must)
EntityFramework 8 and above
Unit Test Frameworks/TDD(x-Unit)

Exception handling,
Logging,
Authentication
Authorization(Role based authorization)
Third party API integration and sandbox testing. 
How to Secure Your Application?
How to Improve Application Performance?
How to increase performance of application(what are the points to be considered while implementing code in terms of performance increment)?
Complex procs implementation(avoid dead locks, performance,..etc)?
Handling Email sending to clients?
Any tools used for code quality check?
Any Entity Level Security implementation done in your project?
How do you configure Infra(IaC) in you project?

 
UI - Angular 11 and above


Asp .Net core pipeline - How it works?
Have you written any middleware?
What is the advantage of Glabal middleware?
Dependency Injection in ASP .Net core
What is the cluster index

2.   How would you document your APIs? 
3.   Any issues implementing JWT tolens?
4.   What is the cycle of API request
5.   Did you work on Custom middleware?
6.   What different types of Rest APIs did you know and use?
7.   If you want to pass data from 1 middleware to other middleware how do you do it?
8.   How will you make a service available to the controller?
9.   Lifetime of a service with in a core
10.In DI, what are Add singleton, add transient and add scoped?
11.In Add transient how many services created
12.Which Solid principles did you use?
Explain use case in which you used and how it helped?

13.Explain me asynchronous programming and benefits
example of / scenario of using Async

14.If API has 3 waits - what doesn't it mean? How does it work
Instead of above if you use 3 tasks vs When.all - what it is the advantage?

15.EF Core - performance improvements?
16.configuration parameters - using Ci/Cd or others - How do you do it?

17.Do you use AzureKeyVault,
18.Questions on ADF and service bus
19.Are you familiar with CQRS pattern?
where you have used in your development?

20.difference between irequest and inotification
21.How do you do mapping of a class to the DB?
22.EF how do you debug
23.Azure Service Bus - What is Topic and Queue?
24.What is Lazy loading?
25.What is iqueryable and inumerable?
26.How do push ver 1 to ver 2 Schema changes and Model changes ro the release?
27.What are benefits and Disadvantages of Entity Framework

What are standalone components
What are Components and Directives?
How do make an Angular Component Singleton?
1.   Explain the Structure of the application you have recently worked on.
(What different layers are there, How it is constructed)
28.Different between const var and let let
29.reactive forms and template driven forms - What is preferred and Why?
30.What are Gaurds in Angular?
31.HTTP Interceptors?
32.Pipes
33.Filters



API (incl RESTful, Az Functions, Logic Apps, Service Bus)
Azure Fundamentals(Key Vault, Secrets, Blob storage, App Registrations, Key rotations, App Insights, App Services, Monitoring, health checks for API's)
Azure Service Bus, Event Grid
Azure App Configuration(Feature Manager)
CI/CD (Pipelines, yml scripting)
Azure SQL (Backend, experience in profiler usage)
AI tools(Git Copilot,...,etc. atleast one must)
ADF(Nice to have)
Cosmos DB(Nice to have)
Nice to have experience in SFTP Storage(Azure Blob Storage with SFTP)

