Factory
Abstract Factory
Singleton
Solid Principles
Template
Bridge
Decorator
Iterator
Lazy Loading
Composite
IoC


Singleton : Only ONE instance of a class exists in the entire application, and it provides a global access point to that instance. Single source of truth.
Singleton vs Static -> private constructor, thread safe, lazy loading, single instance, instance management, wrapper over static -> singleton
singleton use -> caching the data, unneccessarily connecting to database. Single source of logics
Singleton objects are protected, they can't be destroyed outside. -> Singleton objects are encapsulated.
Singleton objects are lazy loaded. 
It is sealed means class can't be inheritaed.
Controls the instance creation.

Factory : loosely coupled ( when we change code at one place, I do not have to make changes at many places). Create objects without exposing the object creation logic to the client.
concrete class - means implemented class
clients should not directly contact with concrete class, to improve abstraction create an interface.

Factory Pattern defines an interface for creating objects but lets subclasses decide which class to instantiate. gives one object.

to achieve this Dependency injection.

Abstract factory : Create families of related objects without specifying their concrete classes. simple words Factory of factories. gives family of objects.


Lazy loading : On demand loading. Do not load an object until it is actually needed.
Why do we need Lazy Loading?

✔ Improves performance
✔ Saves memory
✔ Reduces unnecessary DB calls
✔ Faster startup time

Template Pattern : subclasses override specific steps without changing the overall structure.
Template Pattern defines the skeleton of an algorithm and allows subclasses to redefine certain steps without changing the algorithm’s structure.

Q1: Why use Template Pattern?
Answer:
To define a common algorithm structure while allowing subclasses to customize specific steps.

Q2: Can template method be overridden?
Answer:
No. It should not be overridden; only its internal steps should be customized.

Q3: Is Template Pattern used in ASP.NET?
Answer:
Yes. ASP.NET pipeline follows a template-like flow where developers override specific lifecycle methods.


Composite : Composite Pattern allows clients to treat individual objects and compositions of objects uniformly. 
Treat a group of objects the same way as a single object. 
compose objects in tree structure to represent part-whole hierarchies(objects can be part of each other).

 